Crowd management and crowd safety is something some companies do, and some don't. In any case, to get licensed to make an event, you need to follow standard guides for a risk/event safety assesment that is submitted to the police. Issue is, the standard guide is very high-level and doesn’t go in depth of what the actual safety plan is. Therefore, things are up for interpretation.

LiveNation doesn’t plan, and they probably don’t have the capacity or knowledge to do it either - their safety management is security focused, hiring people to manage things on the go on the ground as they develop. Sometimes, Roskilde offers some small planning if they are participating, however only internally.

Roskilde goes one step further by developing a Venue Manual for each stage/area of the festival. What they are interested in is understanding where people flow in from and mapping risks caused by these flows. They want to have a good understanding of what the flow of people over the whole venue is. People at every festival are different - at Roskilde they are younger, active, move around a lot and see many concerts.

UK is on the forefront of crowd management because they are a fucked up country with many problems, so they have to invest into it.

This summer, Roskilde only provides manpower on ground for Copenhell, no planning. Us making a plan for LiveNation / Copenhell since they don't have people that can do it?

Roskilde makes a **risk assessment for every single concert** - Starting with talking to bookers to understand what kind of a concert it will be (qualitatively speaking). After that, they research the band and do a **Band analysis** (what is the level of popularity/publicum attraction, what sound level they play at, what is the demographic). They try to see if they need to prepare for particular **crowd dynamics** (if the band causes moshpits or storming of the stages to happen etc.) **Crowd types are outlined by Berlongi** [-Crowd types (Berlonghi 1995/EMA 1999) | Download Table (researchgate.net)](https://www.researchgate.net/figure/Crowd-types-Berlonghi-1995-EMA-1999_tbl2_224911893)

They are building a database of bands and concerts to refer to. Word files with filled out features of the band/concert. Can we digitalize/log this data in our product?

Work flow:

Band Analysis > Risk Assesment > Concert Colour (red, green, yellow)

DJ sets are the most unpredictable.

Density mapping is very interesting. Where people leave and at what time, what direction. Setting up more cameras is only a problem when they are CCTV due to cost. Regular cameras is not a problem.

As planners, they have to decide based on their knowledge and intuition what densities are acceptable. There are EU guidelines, but in the end high densities are okay as long as people are having fun at a good concert.

They look at live camera footage to see if there is a crowd collapse, if people are happy… This is included in post evaluation.

Old collaboration with IBM was not good. They were trying to link data from cash registers, spending and concert types/bands to find correlation (Or was this what they wanted from them but didn't get???)

DCM - Cameras cant move to work. They have to be calibrated, and the data outputs you get from it depend on the inputs you give it for raising alarms = too much work for the event organizer, a lot of effort into setting up of the software.

Morten spends time looking at CCTV footage even after festivals.

What would you change if you had the product/analysis - Calculating number of emergency exits, which areas to close off and at what time. Staff allocation - better placement of people on ground in preparation of influx of crowds. Proving their theoretical knowledge with real data.

Roskilde spends approximately 600.000DKK every year on cameras. For places like Royal Arena, this is more of a one-time cost.

They follow the Event Safety Guide and the purple guide [The Purple Guide](https://www.thepurpleguide.co.uk/index.php/the-purple-guide)

[The+Event+Safety+Guide.pdf](Roskilde%20Festival%20c0150926974744a3a5d39167c77340a2/TheEventSafetyGuide.pdf)

For planning of Roskilde festival, they use GIS map tool (Its also used by the emergency response departments). They can import AutoCAD drawings. Its a map of all services in one place. When they go out and build on site, they pay a land surveyor to map out the whole venue with accurate GPS coordinates. This must be really fucking expensive to do for such a large venue!!!!

Moving onwards - Contact DTU about GDPR and-or non-disclosure agreement for data processing. Create data risk assessment for data processing. Roskilde contacts us back if they have a GDPR data agreement / data transfer agreeement.

What problem is being solved by our product? No clear problem being solved. Feedback on redesign of barriers, Less staffing, and staffing on time where it needs to be.

Business talk from Morten - Do something cheap, place cameras yourselves, **do an analysis and offer a visual, understandable data visualization** - People struggle understanding the theory behind what they preach.

Steen is the name of the head of IT at Roskilde
