Roskilde currently uses GPS phone signal to get overview of guest counts through their app. Updates every 15 minutes to get a signal.

Morten says there are many systems available, but all come with a disadvantage - in Denmark, they dont use many cameras, as they are expensive to set up. On top of that they need to move them and this XXX up the analysis done by cameras.

**Morten tested XXX**, they use a grid-like approach to calibration of cameras. It can tolerate some camera movement but not much.

- Gratest value of XXX is in his eyes is the after-analysis of events. For example to see how their barrier design influences flow.
- How fast can a scene get emptied, what is the flow of people from A to B. How fast can a scene fill up and what are the connections to the temporal aspects of the show (concert starting etc.)
- NOT interested in real time analysis - not even in front of stages, as there are plenty of people there present as ground crew and they can tell.
- Sometimes, the crowd issues happen outside of view of cameras (example of Ukendt kunstner concert at Arena stage) far away from stage

It is crucial to build this product/app/function in collaboration with educated crowd management professionals, and the accuracy of reporting is key. Following the current industry standards of flow estimation, density calculation in pre-planning of venues. Otherwise he will NOT use it.

Morten says, psychology of people has changed after corona - They go much more to concerts and they are more hesitant to stand close together.

**Festivals are scaling operations** - during festivals they have a lot of employees, after festival everybody leaves and with that also knowledge of what was done last year. Creating documentation of layouts, crowd management plans and general analysis of how things were will be of great value.

The Police does security - preventing harm where there could be intent of harm
Roskilde does safety - Accomodating people so there is no harm in first place

Safety is about creating risk assessments for possible situations.

**Communication:** two separate channels 112 for emergencies and 114 for internal communication. They use VHF and Whatsapp groups. Sometimes phone signal is an issue.

Mads Therkilsen is responsible for flow analysis, and early in researching how AI tools can help with crowd management. (feeding existing information about venues to the model….)

We will recieve contacts to people from england doing Crowd Science. Keith Still - mathematician with focus in this field.

Takeaway is - analysis is more important than real time insights
