**Levels of service**

- Density measurement
- Heads and shoulders -> high density
- Feet, low density -> ~1-2 ppl pr m2

**Flow**

- Mads knows he needs 2500 guests in before 18
- Mads can count at 16:00, the ingress flow, and capacity of the entrance
- Multiply by an hour. How many come in an hour
- Also 15-min interval
- If Only 1000 people/hr, Need to increase capacity somehow
- 1-minute, 15-minute, 1-hour intervals most interesting

Mads sees a value in having continuous values

He only has initial count, not after changing capacity/flow

For planning purposes at concert:

- Mads needs to check previous flow numbers of venue to know when he needs to up/downscale flow at the entrance
- At Arena, constantly adjusting flow, redirecting crowds
- This data can help them see that 30-min before that need to redirect people
  Or here there is a density that is too high

Resource allocation is a huge part of it. It’s hard to predict. They use estimates and experience to guess

When to open line up system at scene so that not too many come all at once
Also used to calculate entrance width. Based on experience.

Mads agrees that this tool helps with communicating and knowledge sharing. Internally across departments it helps justify requirements.

**Map**

- Mads likes the detail-level
- They have had heatmaps before. From app data. Every 15 minutes
- Only overview, traditional heatmap. Only colors/blobs. They can see that there are a lot people based on blob color
- Makes sense around food and beverage. Can see line formation

**Density**

- Mostly discussed in crowds in front of scenes
- Mads prioritises areas they know are high-density, to do their density calculations.
- 1.5-2 people pr m2 ish for food & beverage areas
- They want to know if there are areas with high density, where not designed for high density
- Density numbers are still good. Shows real world situation vs. Planned calculations
- You just don’t want to see a high density.
- The data is documentation

**Other**

- Mads would like to see movement patterns.
- More specifically: where are people coming from, and where exactly are they going
- Important to have people hit scene head-on, to prevent imbalance
